---
layout: post
title: "20.11: November 2020 Devblog"
date: 2020-12-08 06:30:00+01:00
description: |
    "The community we share brings us joy and robustness..."
extra:
    author: CosmicCoincidence
    image: /assets/img/art/Bug/Bug_Spacegiving.png
    image_credit: Bug
    monthly_release: 0.3.92
---

The community we share brings us joy and robustness for years to come!

# November Recap

Indeed we are still moving slow, but we haven't left. We have been entertaining some ideas on how to increase productivity again, so we will see what comes of that hopefully soon. Again, if you want to help, you are more than welcome to do so in whatever means you are willing, though we especially need people who can work with Unity.

## Fixes

**John** made several changes to our in-game 3D assets, mostly fixing some topology and color issues.

## Models

**John** also seems to be the only one who made any models this month. He a (back row, moving left to right) hand teleporter, pinpointer, syndicate camera bug, flash, atmospheric analyzer, (front row) mining analyzer, hydroponics analyzer, medical analyzer, slime analyzer, & finally a newly styled multitool.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/20.11.01/JohnDevices.png") }}

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/20.11.01/JohnMultitool.png") }}

## Art

This month's art is brought to us by **Bug**!

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/art/Bug/Bug_Spacegiving.png") }}

### Conclusion

These last few months have indeed been slow, but they seem slower than they actually are. We have things that are slowly in the works, but we do not post that progress here, we only display implemented progress in these updates. So...

Join community discussions, ideas, and see WIP content from us over at our {{ discord() }}.

See you back next month!
