---
layout: post
title: "21.04: April 2021 Devblog"
date: 2021-05-06 12:30:00+01:00
description: |
    "Maybe life is random, but I doubt it."
extra:
  author: CosmicCoincidence
  image: /assets/img/art/CosmicCoincidence/CosmicGrinderB2.png
  image_credit: CosmicCoincidence
  monthly_release: 0.3.95c
---

Surely everything happens for a reason, right?

# April Recap

This month's technical contributions were fairly uneventful, currently we are in the process still of reworking the core system designs, and then implementing some of those systems, most notably the tilemap system.

## Details

**Madasski**
- fixed a bug preventing interactions with light fixtures.
- fixed a bug with the examine camera causing inaccurate examinations.
- improved the in-game camera controls.

**mjboth**
- added a light and emission materials to the inside of the microwave that turns on when it's active.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/MicrowaveLights.png") }}

## Models

**Baga** is back this month, contributing a welder, a cookie man, some handcuffs, a set of awesome syringe guns, and finally a collection of PDA cartridges.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BagaWelder.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BagaCookie.png") }}
</div>

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BagaHandcuffs.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BagaSyringeGuns.png") }}
</div>

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BagaCartridges.png") }}

**Basecode** starting making us a wall-mounted security camera, but someone how managed to combine it with our old IPC, creating a security IPC.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BasecodeCamera.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/BasecodeIPC.png") }}
</div>

**Cornelius** also made a security camera, as well as a human heart, and several new facial hairstyles.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/CorneliusCamera.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/CorneliusHeart.png") }}
</div>

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/CorneliusHair.png") }}

**CosmicCoincidence** improved upon an old ai core model and made several colorful face textures to go with it.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/AICores.png") }}

## Textures

With an ai core to now test on, **Konstantin3001** created [this simple Shodan face texture]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.04.01/shodan_simple.png) to use on the ai core.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/AIShodan.png") }}

And when asked if he could produce some toony footprints, he promptly obliged.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/Footprints.png") }}

He also scanned [this picture of his butt for us...]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/21.04.01/ss3d_butt_scan.png) only kidding, *but* seriously this will be the image created when you scan your bare bottom on the photocopier.

**CosmicCoincidence** contributed models for a playing card and its box, as well as 2 full sets of card textures (one nantotrasen themed, one syndicate themed).

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/21.04.01/CosmicCards.png") }}

## Art

This month's dev blog art is also brought to you by the **CosmicCoincidence**, who couldn't decide how to finish his piece and thus made a couple final variations.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
{{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/art/CosmicCoincidence/CosmicGrinderA2.png") }}
{{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/art/CosmicCoincidence/CosmicGrinderB2.png") }}
</div>

## Conclusion

If you're new here, come join the discord happening over at our {{ discord() }}.
