---
layout: post
title: "24.01-03: 2024 1st Quarter Devblog"
date: 2024-04-13 12:30:00+01:00
description: |
    "Anything that can go wrong will go wrong."
authors: [CosmicCoincidence]
extra:
  image: /assets/img/art/SmokingMan/PipesAndGates.png
  image_credit: SmokingMan
  release: 0.0.7.4
aliases: [2024/04/13/24.03.html]
---

*"The scientist discovers a new type of material and the engineer discovers a new use for it."*

-- Gordon Lindsay Glegg

# Q1 Recap

This quarter saw a few new contributors, a rework to the application initialization, a return of the chat system, and more progress on the never-ending bug infestation! We also have some fun stuff in the works right now but that will be saved for another blog.

# Chat

**David-Goru**, a new contributor, ported our old chat system from our outdated branch!

The system allows you to make new tabs that can be customized to certain channels. Tabs can be easily moved, deleted, separated, & merged. Something new is that the chat now works in the server lobby (OOC only).

<iframe class="video" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/DikMXvaYz48" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe class="video" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/4DHk5KcT4Fo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Application Flow

**John** improved the flow of the application's initialization process. The new event-based process is more organized and easier to work with.

## Details

**Nath**
- Added tests for the basic electricity system.
- Fixed many missing asset references.
- Fixed skinned mesh renderers so they wouldn't visibly disappear at the edge of the screen.
- Killed bug relating to reading certain pixels in editor mode!

**IAmTeapot**
- Improved algorithms for electrical circuits.
- Added ragdoll activation upon character death.
- Disabled item colliders when they are put in a container.

**Sjerty** (new contributor)
- Fixed vertical posters from bugging out.
- Anchored buttons to the top of the build menu.
- Fixed container display sync on late-join clients.
- Added a simple game settings menu!

**David-Goru** (new contributor)
- Added missing filters to inventory slots.
- Fixed inventory slots rearranged in follow-up rounds.

**withwater** (new contributor)
- Renamed several folders/files to follow our naming rules.
- Fixed large wall-mounts clipping in certain circumstances.

## Textures

**MilitantPanico** (new contributor) contributed 2 faction bedsheets,

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/24.01-03/BeddingNanotrasen.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/24.01-03/BeddingSyndicate.png") }}
</div>

9 solid colored bedsheets (only 2 are displayed),

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/24.01-03/BeddingRed.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/24.01-03/BeddingBlue.png") }}
</div>

and 2 posters!

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/24.01-03/PosterKC13DOESNOTEXIST.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/24.01-03/PosterTheCaptainNeedsYou.png") }}
</div>

## Art

**SmokingMan** is back with the cover art this time!

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/art/SmokingMan/PipesAndGates.png") }}

## Footnotes

Come hop in our {{ link(key="discord_url", text="Discord", path="") }} to see more frequent updates and chat with the developers!
