---
layout: post
title: "25.04-06: 2025 1st Quarter Devblog"
date: 2025-04-06 12:30:00+01:00
description: |
    "The Discord server if another month went by with no updates"
authors: [ProbablyNot]
extra:
  image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Revolt.png
  image_credit: ProbablyNot
  release: 0.0.7.4
aliases: [2025/03/14/25.02.html]
---

*"Station 13, do you read me? Please respond."*

-- CENTCOMM

# Q1 Recap

Its been a while. Despite popular belief, the probject is still trucking along. Albeit a little slower than we would hope. 

# What were doing

While things may seem dire when it comes to this project, hope has never been lost. Come hell or high water, SS3D will break the curse and become the remake it was destined to be. As of the airing of this devblog, we are in the process of advertising ourselves and searching for new blood to help build this project. We have a bounty board with money to back it up. If you are a programmer or know someone who wants to earn a few extra buckaroos, [check out the bounty board](https://github.com/RE-SS3D/SS3D/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ABounty). We will update it as often as possible. Our funds may be limited but we will try to make it worth your while. 

# Animation

**Nath** has been working on the animation system, allowing for different items to be held, different poses (Sitting, crouching), interaction with tools/weapons, as well as interactions with hands. We included dragging bodies as well so you can live out your hitman lifestyle like youve always been destined to. 

While still a WIP, its a big step into getting our little spacemen to behaving more like spacemen.

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867644?h=079c237c83" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867665?h=07a8a8bc38" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Localization

**Ryan** has implemented localization to the game. With support for French, Portugese, and Russian. More languages will be added, but for now its a start to making the game more accessible to non-English speakers. Those willing to assist in broadening the language support for SS3D can join the {{ link(key="discord_url", text="Discord", path="") }} and assist a programmer in getting their language implemented. Below you can see the system in action, with a fallback if localization isnt included in a specific asset.
<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Localization1.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Localization2.png") }}
</div>

# Electricity

**Goru** Integrated the vending machines and jukebox into our electricity system.

# Crafting 

**Nath** Added to the crafting system, now with recipes for building walls.

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867716?h=276f0b491f" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Atmospherics

**Nath** Has been working on returning the staple atmos system back into the game, integrating pipes and machinery. You can see it in action below, featuring the system itself as well as how it functions inside pipes:

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867613?h=59261dfdcf" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867657?h=21773e204a" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Details

**Goru**
- Fixed a duping UI bug that would manifest between rounds.
- Repaired the vending machines, restocking them in the process.

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867620?h=134e2df665" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**IAmTeapot**
- Fixed an interaction during construction

**With Water**
- Fixed clipping on large wall mounts

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/WithWater_P1433.png") }}


**Sjerty**
- Added some options to the game settings, allowing UI elements to be switched.
<iframe class="video" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/feD-uWeeV9Y" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


**NecroMunger** (new contributor)
- Fixed a bug regarding audio sources when they get destroyed.
- Capped the distance to how far items could get picked up

## Models
***Sen*** (New Contributor) Made some sleek models for our atmos pipes along with related devices. 

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Sen_Atmos.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Sen_Pipes.png") }}
</div>

## Textures

**Plasma Eagle** Made some UI mockups for atmospherics panels that will be useful for the aformentioned machinery.


  {{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/PlasmaEagle-1.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/PlasmaEagle-2.png") }}

## Art

**ProbablyNot** is once again responsible for this blogs cover art.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Revolt.png") }}




## Footnotes

Despite everything, we appreciate the support you all have given us. Every contributor past and present have been important to the continued life of this project. 

Once again we would like to direct those interested to our [bounty board](https://github.com/RE-SS3D/SS3D/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ABounty). Please tell your programmer friends about us, any help will always be appreciated.

After that, come hop in our {{ link(key="discord_url", text="Discord", path="") }} to see more frequent updates and chat with the developers!
