---
layout: post
title: "25.01-03: 2025 1st Quarter Devblog"
date: 2025-04-06 12:30:00+01:00
description: |
    "The Discord server if another month went by with no updates."
authors: [ProbablyNot + CosmicCoincidence]
extra:
  image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Revolt.png
  image_credit: ProbablyNot
  release: 0.0.7.4
aliases: [2025/04/06/25.03.html]
---

*"Station 13, do you read me? Please respond."*

-- CENTCOMM

# Q1 Recap

It's been a while. Despite popular belief, the probject is still trucking along. Albeit a little slower than we would hope. We haven't had a blog in many months due minimal progress so we are especially excited to release this.

# What We're Doing

While things may seem dire when it comes to this project, hope has never been lost. Come hell or high water, SS3D will break the curse and become the remake it was destined to be.

As of the airing of this devblog, we are in the process of advertising ourselves and searching for new blood to help build this project. We have a bounty board with money to back it up. If you are a programmer or know someone who wants to earn a few extra buckaroos, [check out our github bounties](https://github.com/RE-SS3D/SS3D/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ABounty). We will update it as often as possible. Our funds may be limited but we will try to make it worth your while. 

# Animation

The animation system has been a large bottleneck for SS3D for a long time now. It's quite complex resulting in few souls daring to take up the task, while also being a core system for the project so many other systems rely on it and are waiting for it's completion...

**Nath** has been our knight-in-shining-armor tackling the animation system; allowing characters to hold varying items, strike different poses (i.e. sitting, crouching), and interacting with both held and placed objects. You can even drag bodies so you can live out your hitman lifestyle like you've always been destined to. 

While still a WIP, its a big step into getting our little spacemen to behaving more like spacemen.

<br>

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867644?h=079c237c83" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br>

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867665?h=07a8a8bc38" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Localization

**Ryan** has implemented localization to the game. With support for French, Portugese, and Russian. More languages will be added, but for now its a start to making the game more accessible to non-English speakers. Below you can see the system in action, with a fallback if localization isn't included in a specific asset.

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Localization1.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Localization2.png") }}
</div>

Current translations are made via Google Translate. Those willing to assist in broadening the language support for SS3D can join our {{ link(key="discord_url", text="Discord", path="") }} and assist a programmer in getting their language implemented.

# Electricity

**Goru** integrated the vending machines and jukebox into our electricity system. They both now consume a small amount of electricity while connected to the electrical grid and idling, and consume even more when in use.

# Construction (Crafting)

**Nath** added construction recently. This is not a new system but rather an expansion to the crafting system. And now have construction recipes for walls.

<br>

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867716?h=276f0b491f" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Atmospherics

**Nath** the wizard has been working on returning the staple atmospherics system back into the game, integrating pipes and machinery. You can see it in action below, featuring the both on open tiles as well as within pipes:

<br>

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867613?h=59261dfdcf" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br>

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867657?h=21773e204a" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Details

**Goru**
- Fixed a duping UI bug that would manifest between rounds.
- Repaired the vending machines, restocking them in the process.

<iframe class="vimeo-player" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1070867620?h=134e2df665" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**IAmTeapot**
- Fixed lighting bug where objects would appear completely black when not lit.
- Fixed an interaction during construction.
- Readded a missing script to the human which was causing bugs.

**With Water**
- Fixed clipping on large wall mounts.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/WithWater_P1433.png") }}

**Sjerty**
- Added some options to the game settings, allowing UI elements to be switched.
<iframe class="video" width="580px" height="325px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/feD-uWeeV9Y" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**NecroMunger** (new contributor)
- Fixed a bug regarding audio sources when they get destroyed.
- Capped the distance to how far items could get picked up.
- Fixed being able to place items outside the players view and on non-flat surfaces.

**Nath**
- Minimized bandwidth usage by reducing unnecessary syncs.
- Added Parrelsync which allows for faster host + client testing.
- Added Fast Script Reload package which allows for making code changes while testing without needing to recompile.

**John**
- Added open/close interactions to lockers.
- Added stylecop scripts to enforce coding rules.

## Models
**Sen** (New Contributor) made some sleek models for our atmospherics pipes along with related devices. 

<div class='horizontal-2' markdown='1'>
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Sen_Atmos.png") }}
  {{ image(kind="split", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/Sen_Pipes.png") }}
</div>

## Textures

**Plasma Eagle** made some UI mockups for atmospherics panels that will be useful for the aformentioned machinery.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/PlasmaEagle-1.png") }}
{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/posts/25.02.14/PlasmaEagle-2.png") }}

## Art

**ProbablyNot** is once again responsible for this blogs cover art.

{{ image(kind="post", src="assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_Revolt.png") }}

## Footnotes

Despite everything, we appreciate the support you all have given us. Every contributor past and present have been important to the continued life of this project. 

Once again we would like to direct those interested to our [bounty board](https://github.com/RE-SS3D/SS3D/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ABounty). Please tell your programmer friends about us, any help will always be appreciated.

After that, come hop in our {{ link(key="discord_url", text="Discord", path="") }} to see more frequent updates and chat with the developers!
